# ToolFinder
tool finder
My Project was made to help find missing tools. Over the past three years, my father has beem working on renevating our home to make it more sutible for living our daily lives. For this project, I've chosen the top 5 tools he uses and and loses the most, those being, his hammer, his drill, his tape measure, his knife, and his level tool. My goal for this project is to make it better for him to find his lost tools.

The project works by holding up your camera over a certain area where you believe your tools are located. When the camera finds it, your screen will let you know by showing that its been found on the side of the screen next to the camera. Once your camera has found it, you may search the area to find your tool.

I used object detection on jupyterLab to do this project. I took between 55-190 pictures of each tool so I could train the project. Over the past two weeks of creating and designing, I took lots of pictures and I deleted blury images. Images that were in the wrong tool folders I removed from its training path so it wouldn't give me incorrect results. I ran the training about a dozen time over the past few weeks to fine tune the application's results. 

If you are struggling to use it you are going to want to adjust your camera angle or change the lighting in your room that you are using. Most errors come from camera angle. This being because the tool might blend in too much with the surroudning objects. Another problem might be that the tool might be partially covered by an object, making it hard for the camera to see. if the room is too dark, this might be another reason problems arise. Knowing these are possible issues, I plan on adding more photos with diffrent backrounds, different lighting, with diffrent amounts of the object showing clutter, so I can fine tune this application for my dad for father's day.
